this has been a big week for the LGBT
community but it's also been a big year
for the T part of that equation from
Caitlyn Jenner's Vanity Fair cover two
TV shows like transparent to another
small milestone just this Friday with
the curtain Tussauds San Francisco now
that is a big step forward for
transgender Americans and it's frankly
about time because bear in mind it came
after the same milestone for Spyder
Americans and wookiees but but for all
the strides transgender people have made
lately let's not get too complacent
about how far we've come because they
still face a host of obstacles even when
the news media are trying to be
supportive they can make dumb mistakes
your private parts are different now
aren't they I don't want to talk about
it because it's it's so it's really
personal don't you feel funny with the
wrong genitalia not as a joke you stand
up in the women's bathroom you know I
they're tasteful whatever whatever is
going on
thank you so if I saw you undressed you
would look like a woman to me totally
yes
what are you doing it is no more okay to
ask
transgender people about their sex
organs than it would be to ask Jimmy
Carter whether or not he's circumcised
which by the way he is smooth like a
boiled carrots and sometimes sometimes
don't think about that and sometimes the
media's confusion is even more basic
than that as in the case of this Arizona
weatherman just two weeks ago and a
transgender woman says she was kicked
out of a tempe bar let's bring it back
to that earlier headline now as a
transgender woman death
what does that even mean that she used
to be a guy but now the woman
[Music]
this is are you just saying a woman I
can't even keep up anymore
oh really hope that's also how he
reports the weather wait
it used to be rainy and now it's sunny
so so so now it's just sunny now I can't
even keep up anymore
[Applause]
look let's let's give him the benefit of
the doubt maybe for him and for many
people this is new information maybe
he's thinking about transgender issues
for the first time and he needs a minute
to try and understand it so let's take
that minute to fill in that bamboozled
weatherman and everyone else on some
basic details transgender people have a
gender identity that differs from the
one they were assigned at birth and that
gender identity is not the same as
sexual orientation gender identity is
who you are
sexual orientation is who you love some
transgender people do undergo hormone
therapy or sex reassignment surgery as
part of their transition some do not and
interestingly their decision on this
matter is medically speaking none of
your business what do I call a
transgender person it's so confusing
well actually it's pretty simple call
them whatever they want to be called you
can do it we do it all the time think of
it this way David Evans woke up one day
and said everyone call me the edge and
we all went find the edge are we talking
from now on or the verb and and that's
it's not just that it's not just that
over the past 20 years we've agreed to
call this man Puff Daddy P Diddy just
Diddy
and now Puff Daddy again and most people
don't even like him
[Applause]
it's genuinely crucial that we get this
right because there are more transgender
people in the u.s. than you might
realize one study estimates that nearly
700,000 American adults are transgender
that's more than the population of
Boston and you probably know someone
from Boston I'll give you a clue it was
the guy who wore a Bruins jersey to your
sister's wedding Wow while a handful of
transgender people have been winning
awards or appearing on magazine covers
the community at large has been facing
some staggering challenges a 2011 survey
by the National Center for transgender
equality found 41% of transgender people
had attempted suicide they are nearly 4
times more likely to make less than $100
a year compared to the general
population 78 percent of those surveyed
reported harassment during K through 12
school 35% reported physical assault and
12% were sexually assaulted that is
terrible
those statistics are so depressing it's
enough to make you angry at the very
concept of numbers Q symbols meant to
represent a specific value you're the
absolute worst the worst we've we
clearly got work to do because when
you're transgender pretty much any
interaction with bureaucracy can be
humiliatingly difficult just take what
happened to two transgender women when
they went to the DMV in West Virginia
both women were asked to remove all
their jewelry makeup and wigs before the
DMV would photograph them they're saying
that I need to fulfill certain certain
look that they are designating means
male and that I'm yeah hiding Who I am
which I'm absolutely not both women say
they will also refer to as it listen I'm
not saying anyone has a good DMV
experience but that is the worst I have
ever heard and for the record you get to
pick virtually everything else on your
driver's license they ask you your
weight they don't weight you like a
prize hog
plus the whole idea of a driver's
license photo is to present how you look
from day to day
that's why DMV employees tell you not to
smile because they can't imagine anyone
whose normal existence involves
happiness in any form and anything is
even in organizations that have seemed
willing to change that change has come
frustratingly slowly take the military
both the Secretary of Defense and
President Obama have indicated they are
open to transgender troops being able to
serve and yet they're still banned from
enlisting because of weirdly archaic
restrictions on things like defects of
the genitalia such as change of sex and
psychosexual conditions including but
not limited to transsexualism and
transvestitism our current recruitment
poster is essentially I want you maybe
after we talk about your genitals for a
bit I know that's weird but for the
moment this is apparently how we do
things and yet even despite those
restrictions on enlistment by one
estimate there are currently 15,000
transgender service members and what you
can be discharged for being transgender
those rules are enforced inconsistently
depending on your branch of service and
commanding officer
meaning experiences can vary wildly but
for some like Logan Ireland it could be
great what I like about this deployment
is I can be my authentic self
I'm just another guy whereas back home
I'm still seen as female and I go by
FEMA regs and standards here in
Afghanistan a war zone it's like a
vacation to me because I can be myself
in such an austere environment it is not
a great sign for how we treat
transgender people that Afghanistan is a
place where you can be yourself
that is the least likely tourism slogan
for Afghanistan I put it right behind
water park capital of the world and
birthplace of the twerk but but compare
that with the experience of captain
Jacob eliazar of the Army National Guard
who faced discharge for being
transgender despite his own command to
support and the fact he was being
awarded a medal the thing that stuck
with me the most is as they were pinning
that that army commendation medal I mean
my regimental commander said thank you
for everything that you've done for our
regiment Jacob and you use my real name
and I I can't I can't express just the
emotion of that juxtaposition it's like
you're you're kicking me out but you're
acknowledging me for myself and giving
you award at the same time that utterly
ridiculous they gave him an award and
then tried to kick him out it's pretty
much what Hollywood did to Cuba Gooding
jr. and that wasn't okay either but but
this is the big problem these are the
big problem because even when people say
the right things about the transgender
community too often practical change
fails to follow and perhaps the perfect
embodiment of this concerns bathrooms we
all use them as the good book tells us
everyone poops or as it's known in
England everyone poops but to the Queen
she has people do it for her across the
country there have been efforts by
lawmakers to fight non-discrimination
ordinances with so-called bathroom bills
like this one in Arizona it's a new show
me your papers bill for Arizona the sex
on your birth certificate would have to
match the sex of the bathroom or locker
room that you use the target transgender
men
women here in Arizona six months in jail
$2,500 fine for just going into P $2,500
fine for peeing in the wrong place look
unless you happen to urinate a 1989
Chateau pur true you're not even going
to break even on that deal in the most
recent session at least 13 bathroom
bills have been introduced in state
legislatures and the reasoning behind
them can be pretty insulting just listen
to presidential candidate Mike Huckabee
here now in City after City watching
ordinances that say that your
seven-year-old daughter if she goes into
the restroom cannot be offended and you
can't be offended if she's greeted there
by a 42 year old man who feels more like
a woman than he does a man now I wish
someone had told me when I was in high
school that I could have felt like a
woman when it came time to take showers
and PE I'm pretty sure I would have
found my feminine side and said coach I
think I'd rather shower with the girls
today you're laughing because it sounds
so ridiculous doesn't it there's
something inherently wrong with forcing
little children to be a part of this
social experiment no but there is
something inherently wrong with forcing
us to listen to your up daydreams
about all the sex you just being able to
find a legal
that's weird that kind of baseless
fear-mongering is everywhere it even
turned up in a campaign ad when
Gainesville Florida was trying to pass
one of these bills
[Music]
[Applause]
ok let's let's break that down
because first assaulting children is
still illegal secondly someone abusing a
non-discrimination ordinance to assault
someone in a bathroom is almost unheard
of it's a borderline imaginary crime
like dragon rustling or space best
eality sure it's terrible but it doesn't
really happen also forcing transgender
people into certain bathrooms can
actually be much more disruptive as
activists Michael Hughes a transgender
man showed with this photo of himself
looking understandably awkward in a
ladies room because there are many
places that Michael would fit in a
tattoo parlor in Reno playing steel
guitar in a Johnny Cash tribute band or
on the label of his own barbecue sauce
but a woman's bathroom
not so much besides it is so much easier
for everyone when people are allowed to
use the bathroom that matches their
gender identity rather than one that
might match the genitalia they were born
with that is why the little pictures on
bathroom doors are stereotypical
representations of men and women and not
biologically accurate depictions of
penises and vaginas because that would
be troubling for children
so I go with the one with the party slug
or the angry goat skull on stairs yes
legislators have even tried to enforce
these bills in high schools with
damaging consequences take the case of
Henry Bruce Oh a transgender high school
student who spoke in opposition to a
proposed bathroom bill in Kentucky even
though I've been living as a male for
some time I've been been accepted by my
friends and family at Smail I was being
forced to use the girls bathroom and my
school to very recently because the
school administration did not support my
gender either than by letting me use the
restrooms Concordat with my gender
identity the kids on my school bully me
the kids thought that because his
administrative administration didn't
support my gender identity they didn't
have to either and that is the whole
point official rules can end up
legitimizing prejudice and besides
teenagers really don't need extra ideas
for how to make each other's lives
miserable that's what they do sit on
your own
Becca side ponytails are so five Nevers
ago as Henry finished his speech it
actually seems like he'd really
connected with the legislators if you
don't know a transgender kid already you
do know you do now you know me Henry
please let me know how I can be any
further assistance and thank you so much
for your time today and please vote no
on Senate bill 76 I educated myself a
lot today and I appreciate the testimony
you should be proud of proud of yourself
for being outstanding from this
committee and be so articulate in your
comments Henry I love you man I
appreciate you I appreciate your courage
I can't really imagine that anyone else
in this room has the kind of courage
that it took for you to come and testify
today okay okay but I love you man it's
a little much I love Henry too but he's
not the best man at your wedding he's a
teenage boy trying to take a in the
men's room
and and it's worth noting once they were
done patting Henry on the back and then
patting themselves for patting Henry all
three of those lawmakers voted to
advance the bill to force him into
bathrooms where he's bullied now
thankfully that that particular bill
never became law but that dynamic of
praising a transgender persons courage
and then not actually supporting them
speaks to the fact that we are weirdly
comfortable celebrating transgender
people while simultaneously dehumanizing
them at the DMV printing awards to them
as we drum them out of the military and
constantly quizzing them about their
genitals and look this is a civil rights
issue and if you are not willing to
support transgender people for their
sake at least do it for your own because
we've been through this before we know
how this thing ends if you take the anti
civil rights side and deny people access
to something they're entitled to history
is not going to be kind to you
there is no biopic where Liam Neeson
kicks the out of a suffragist this
this is not a stamp featuring George
Wallace at the schoolhouse door and you
are not going to get a monument that
says at the base of it he told people
where to
[Applause]
you